Okay, this sounds insane, but adding
negative keywords for some of you, not
all of you, is actually limiting the
performance of your account. There are
two phases in how to go about adding
negative keywords to accounts, and then
eventually testing removing negative
keywords. Now, most of you watching
probably are going to be in the first
phase where you actually should be
adding negative keywords. I'll talk
about that. But, then there is the
second phase where you should test
removing negative keywords. I will
actually show you an account where I
fully removed negative keywords. It
works wonderfully, and I'll show you how
it's actually making money on terms that
you would think should be negated from,
but somehow Google's making actual real
dollars, real sales for this account on
what looks like bad terms. Let's dive
in. So, when you add a negative keyword,
you are telling Google, "Do not show my
ad for someone searching for this term
or keyword that you've added as a
negative, right?" You're limiting the
auctions you're allowing Google to go
enter, which in phase one, which is
you're either a brand new account or you
have
lower or limited conversion volume, I
will help determine how you actually
determine whether or not you have
limited or low conversion volume here in
a second. But, new accounts, you
absolutely should be adding negative
keywords. And in fact, in my trainings,
I usually recommend new accounts you do
it every single day. Google doesn't
really know
what a converter looks like to you yet,
and it does a terrible job in most cases
at putting your ads in front of the
right audiences, even when you build
sound campaign structures like I teach
here on the YouTube channel or in my
school group community. So,
you must add negative keywords in the
beginning. I'm all pro negative keyword
addition, right? Forget giving Google
more money than they deserve and I think
they're greedy about it, too, by the
way. Now,
when you have lower conversion volume or
limited conversion volume, negative
keywords are still highly important. So,
many of you watching this video right
now should add negative keywords and
continue to add negative keywords. By
the way, I actually just did a video not
too long ago on how I automated negative
keywords. I will have a link to that
video in the description below. Check
that out after this video, but I have
scripts as well as Claude skills that
help with this as well as a a a full AI
builder tool that we've developed here
internally at Grow My Ads that helps
with negative keyword additions. So, I
teach on negatives. I show you how to
add them and you should absolutely be
adding negative keywords if you're in
phase one. Now, how do you know if you
have enough conversion volume to pivot
to what I would call phase two, which
means you actually want to start
removing negative keywords. Here's how
you know.
Does your current campaign right now or
campaigns have enough conversion volume
in them where your smart bidding is very
consistent? So, if you change the
bidding goal, you don't go through these
real wacky phases. You kind of have it
dialed in. It's going to stay
consistent. So, let's say you're at like
a 200% ROAS target and you're like,
"Yeah, I need to move this up to 220."
You don't lose too much. It Things still
operate very consistently for you.
You're comfortable. You're confident in
those campaigns. And if you're on
search, you are utilizing a lot of broad
keywords and they're working well for
you, or maybe you're even tapped into AI
Max and that is working well for you. If
you say yes to that, you're like, "Yeah,
I spend lots of money. I've got lots of
conversion volume coming in. There's
tons of consistency. Smart bidding works
just wonderful for us. We don't have all
this finickiness that lower spending or
small and it's not always low spending
cuz like B2B SaaS companies can spend
100k a month and smart bidding still is
very finicky cuz it's just low
conversion volume to work with. But, if
you're not feeling that, if you're like,
"Yeah, we're we're we're confident in
the campaigns. We have no, you know,
once we change bidding targets, there's
no problems. It goes up or goes down,
but there's no there's no real slowdowns
or suffocation periods that we feel."
Then, you're in a really good spot. When
you're running search and you have broad
and you're tapped into broad or even AI
max and that's working for you, that is
the signal
that you're really not targeting
keywords anymore. You're you're fully
tapped into what Google wants, which is
just like audience targeting. Google
knows what your converters look like and
they just enter auctions to try to
cherry-pick people who look like your
converters. That is why you can have
accounts where literally it's all broad
match and it works because you're not
really buying the keyword. You're like
just like go find me people who look
like my converters at that point. And
I'll show you inside of an account then
where we're able to actually pull that
off for the most part. Now, when your
account is in that stage, negative
keywords actually can hinder you because
you don't want to limit the auctions
Google will send you into. And I'm going
to show you this in a real account. So,
what I recommend to people who have high
volume or broad match working or AI max
working and smart bidding's working
consistently for them, then what I
recommend is start testing. Just remove
a negative keyword list or batches of
negative keywords
and see what happens. And in fact, you
actually can in some cases start to see
a performance gain. And it makes
sometimes like it doesn't make sense to
at first, but once you start testing
you're like, "Oh, this this starts to
make sense." Like, Google really is able
to find auctions for terms that I
thought looked bad, and there's
conversions to be had there that I just
never was able to tap into until now
because I'm lucky and I'm in this phase
two era of my Google Ads account. So,
let me show you a real account where I
was able to pull this off. Okay, so this
is a shopping campaign. We've spent
about 168,000 this year on it, and it
has produced almost 500,000 in revenue
at like a 2.91, okay? Now, I'm going to
go into this campaign, and I'm going to
go to the negative keywords. You'll
notice there is a negative keyword list
called brand terms. We still negate
brand terms from this campaign, so that
would be the company's name. We don't
want to target the company's name in
this campaign. We actually have a
branded shopping campaign specific for
that traffic. Then,
I somewhat lied. I'm sorry. We do have
some negative keywords in here, and that
is because we removed a bunch, and then
there were still some it's like, "Okay,
these still are not doing as well.
Google will probably, you know, nickel
and dime us over time on them, so let's
just let's let's just add the some of
those negatives." So, we actually still
will review
wasted spend search terms, but you'll
notice I have a whopping 18 negatives in
here on this account. And
if we go into our negative keyword list,
we used to have like thousands. So, this
one has 4,000, this one has 4,000. So,
we were running at one point just
thousands and thousands of negative
keywords. And what we simply did is once
this shopping campaign was super dialed
in, we just removed them to test to see
what happened. Now,
I want to show you an example of what I
mean by this. Okay, for this account,
there is a competitor called LoveSack,
and we actually at one point tried
targeting Lovesac and we ended up with a
whopping 0.26%
ROAS. It was really, really bad, right?
We were We were actually signaling to
Google, we want to bid on Lovesac. And
the reason we did that is because we
started to see in some data that it
could work, right? And this is what
actually got us to like let's test
removing competitors as negatives. That
was like the first phase we went through
with this specific account and then we
we moved into, you know, removing pretty
much all the negatives that we could
after this test. But I want to show you.
Lovesac is a competitor. In most cases,
unless you do a competitor specific
campaign, specific initiatives, specific
landing page, maybe it's a comparison
page or something that you see a lot of
mattress companies do, a lot of times it
doesn't work.
And in most cases, if you're in phase
one, I I recommend you add competitors
as negative keywords. Google will do a
really poor job of showing your ad to a
bunch of competitors of yours when
people are literally specifically
looking for that competitor. You have
And some people think, well, I mean, if
they're looking for my competitor, maybe
they haven't heard about me. This isn't
a billboard. We're not trying to do
billboard advertising here. We are
trying to make money right now,
especially in phase one. But
in phase two, again, lots of volume,
everything's working,
Google knows what a converter looks like
to you. So, a competitor term actually
can now work because the small sliver of
traffic searching that competitor,
Google can determine, hey, this person
actually looks like a converter to this
account or your account. So, in this
case, I just wanted to show you when we
were specifically targeting it, it did
terrible and this was done in a search
campaign. Now, if I go into my shopping
campaign where I no longer have Lovesac
as a negative keyword, I've been able to
generate $7,000.
It's not a ton to this account, but it
works, right? So, why would I want to
limit that? I've been able to make
$7,000 at almost a 4x, which is beyond
our actual goal that we're asking for in
this campaign,
because I didn't add it as a negative
keyword. So, again, why does that work?
It works because this shopping campaign
has an insane amount of volume to it,
and it works. Like Google knows what our
converters look like. We have enough
volume for it to do that. And so,
LoveSack searches, the, you know,
140,000
impressions we were able to get this
year, and out of that, the 900 some
clicks that we got, these were only
Google was only allowing us to be in a
small sliver of people searching for
LoveSack, because Google determined that
these impressions of searchers were
searchers who looked to be like a
converter to Home Reserve. So, it was
cherry-picking those auctions, even
though from uh, you know, a best
practice standpoint, this would be a
competitor term, and usually you would
want to add as a negative keyword. Now,
you can look at that for lots of other
negatives. Where I still would have
caution is, and you'll see it in my
negative keywords uh, in the account, I
have still recliner in here, right?
Why do I have recliner in there? I don't
really care that Google has all the
intent signals possible. It was still,
when we did this test, we removed
recliner, it was still showing us for
recliner searches, and it just still
wasn't really working. Now, again, we
weren't getting a mass volume of
recliner clicks and impressions, but it
was enough that over time, when I
started looking at long time frames, to
me it was like, "Okay, this is just
simply not going to work." And that's
because we don't sell anything that's
reclining furniture. So,
even though Google determines like,
"Hey, you know, maybe this person looks
like they they could be a converter of
Home Reserve." No one searching for
recliner sofas is buying anything from
us when we have zero recliner sofas. So,
you still want to add just like, you
know, brain-dead obvious negative
keywords. But in this phase where we're
at with this campaign, and I'll show you
a search campaign here in a second, too.
You can test removing that and making
some incremental performance gains like
I did with 7K so far this year. Again,
not a ton of money to to for this
company, but that's 7K that I made
profitably that I wouldn't have had
before. So, that was just one term,
right? That was Lovesac. Start stacking
the other negative keyword themes that
I've removed, and it could be a few
thousand here, a few thousand there. It
starts to add up. By the end of the
year, we're going to make some decent
coin on terms that I used to never run
cuz I had them as negative keywords.
Okay, now here's a search campaign. It
is mostly driven by broad match, and
then we have some exact sprinkled in
there as well. Again, this is like we're
in phase two with this search campaign.
Tons of volume, predominantly lives off
broad, does really well for us. And so,
we were able to start removing negative
keywords from it and do just fine. So,
here's that competitor term again. And
here we've done about 7K 1.65. You can't
look at in this account. We look at by
time metric. So, conversion by time,
conversion value by time because there
is that delay in conversion value or
population because there's a longer
sales cycle here. So, we know that we're
actually getting more than that if I was
able to look at a by time metric at at
the search term level. You can't do
that. And so, you can do it at keyword
level, you can do do at ad group and
campaign, but not at the individual
search term level. So, we're happy with
that. And like if I go back to, you
know, longer periods of time, or sorry,
not longer periods of time, but if I go
back further where like conversion
population would populate and you would
look at a conversion metric and a
conversion by time metric and they would
be very close to each other, then, you
know, look, it was a 2.65 if I go back
to January and February there. So, we
know this does fine based off of the
performance goals that we're looking at
with this in this account, so we keep
it. Again, this is money that
historically I would have had negated
that I never would have entered the
auctions, but because we have so much
volume, because we're tapped in at least
at in the search campaign, and broad is
working for us, right? Broad match, then
this was a time to start testing. Let's
remove negative keywords from the search
campaign, and let's let it rip. Let Let
Google determine the audiences that look
like converters for us. Forget what the
search terms actually are. Again, to an
extent, we still negate things that are
just brain-dead obvious.
There you go. If you feel like you're in
phase two, then start testing removing
batches of negative keywords and see
what happens to your performance. So,
start with maybe competitors. Just
remove competitor negatives. See what
happens. That works for you, then start
removing more batches of negatives. I
don't think you need to go do what I did
and just like clear all of them out. Um
you can, depending on your risk
tolerance, but just start in little
batches of removals of negative
keywords. See what happens to your
performance. Again, that's if you're in
phase two. If you're not, and you're not
utilizing a ton of broad, and you're,
you know, lower conversion volume still,
then keep doing what you're doing, keep
adding neg- negative keywords. And
again, go check out the video that I
have on how I automated negative
keywords, where I talk about a cloud
skill that's been developed an AI
campaign builder tool that we use for
negatives as well as scripts that you
can use in your account too if you're
not using clawed or like AI or anything.
So, it can be automated with just about
any tool accessible to anyone. And so,
you should be adding negatives if you're
in phase one and it doesn't really need
to be that big of a chore to do either.
So, go check out that video next.